IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA

SARAH JOHNSON,                          )
                                       )
                    Plaintiff,         )    Case No. 3:24-cv-01234
                                       )
v.                                     )    COMPLAINT FOR DAMAGES
                                       )
DATATECH CORPORATION,                  )
                                       )
                    Defendant.         )
______________________________________)

TO THE HONORABLE COURT:

Plaintiff Sarah Johnson hereby complains against Defendant DataTech Corporation as follows:

I. JURISDICTION AND VENUE

1. This Court has subject matter jurisdiction over this action pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1331 (federal question jurisdiction) and 28 U.S.C. § 1367 (supplemental jurisdiction).

2. Venue is proper in this District pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1391(b) because Defendant conducts substantial business activities within this judicial district.

II. PARTIES

3. Plaintiff Sarah Johnson is a resident of San Francisco, California, and was at all relevant times an employee of Defendant.

4. Defendant DataTech Corporation is a Delaware corporation with its principal place of business in San Francisco, California, engaged in the business of data analytics and software development.

III. STATEMENT OF FACTS

5. On January 15, 2022, Plaintiff was hired by Defendant as a Senior Data Scientist pursuant to an employment agreement.

6. The employment agreement contained provisions regarding compensation, benefits, confidentiality, and termination procedures.

7. On March 10, 2024, Plaintiff discovered significant security vulnerabilities in Defendant's customer data protection systems.

8. Plaintiff reported these vulnerabilities to management through proper channels as required by company policy and applicable law.

9. Despite Plaintiff's good faith efforts to address these critical security issues, Defendant failed to take appropriate remedial action.

10. On March 25, 2024, Defendant terminated Plaintiff's employment in retaliation for her whistleblowing activities.

11. Defendant's termination of Plaintiff violated federal and state whistleblower protection laws.

IV. CAUSES OF ACTION

COUNT I - WRONGFUL TERMINATION IN VIOLATION OF PUBLIC POLICY

12. Plaintiff incorporates by reference all preceding paragraphs as if fully set forth herein.

13. Plaintiff's reporting of security vulnerabilities was protected activity under California Labor Code Section 1102.5 and federal whistleblower statutes.

14. Defendant terminated Plaintiff in retaliation for engaging in protected whistleblowing activities.

15. Defendant's conduct violates fundamental public policy protecting employees who report violations of law.

16. As a direct and proximate result of Defendant's wrongful conduct, Plaintiff has suffered and will continue to suffer damages including lost wages, benefits, and emotional distress.

COUNT II - BREACH OF EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT

17. Plaintiff incorporates by reference all preceding paragraphs.

18. The employment agreement constituted a valid and binding contract between the parties.

19. Plaintiff performed all obligations required under the employment agreement.

20. Defendant breached the employment agreement by terminating Plaintiff without following contractual procedures and without just cause.

21. As a direct result of Defendant's breach, Plaintiff has suffered damages in an amount to be proven at trial.

COUNT III - INTENTIONAL INFLICTION OF EMOTIONAL DISTRESS

22. Plaintiff incorporates by reference all preceding paragraphs.

23. Defendant's conduct in retaliating against Plaintiff for reporting security vulnerabilities was extreme and outrageous.

24. Defendant's conduct was intended to cause, or was done with reckless disregard for causing, severe emotional distress to Plaintiff.

25. Plaintiff has suffered severe emotional distress as a direct result of Defendant's conduct.

V. PRAYER FOR RELIEF

WHEREFORE, Plaintiff respectfully requests that this Court:

A. Award compensatory damages in an amount to be proven at trial, including lost wages, benefits, and future earnings;

B. Award damages for emotional distress and pain and suffering;

C. Award punitive damages where permitted by law;

D. Award reasonable attorneys' fees and costs;

E. Grant such other and further relief as this Court deems just and proper.

DEMAND FOR JURY TRIAL

Plaintiff hereby demands trial by jury on all issues so triable.

Dated: April 14, 2024

Respectfully submitted,

/s/ Michael Attorney
Michael Attorney (State Bar No. 123456)
EMPLOYMENT LAW GROUP LLP
123 Main Street, Suite 500
San Francisco, CA 94105
Tel: (415) 555-0123
Email: mattorney@elg.com

Attorney for Plaintiff Sarah Johnson